Files docs (#3986)
inveniosoftware/invenio: docs/tutorials/handling-files.rst

..
    This file is part of Invenio.
    Copyright (C) 2019 CERN.

    Invenio is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the terms of the MIT License; see LICENSE file for more details.

.. _integrating-files:

Integrating Files
=================
With Invenio, you can attach files to records and use powerful REST APIs to
upload and download files. You can also integrate previewers to nicely display
the content of a file in a webpage and use APIs to deliver different types of
images using the IIIF de facto standard.

.. _handling-files-overview:

Overview
--------
The first step when setting up files integration is to decide where to store them.
In Invenio, you can achieve this by defining a ``Location``: a location
is a representation of your storage system. It can be, for example, a local
folder in your machine or a remote storage. It has a ``name`` and a ``URI`` to
define the base path to the files.

> To access and manage files in a location, Invenio uses ``Storage`` implementation:

Author: Actually I put here `a Storage implementation`, it makes more sense IMHO.

it defines how to access files in your location. In other words, it knows how files
are stored, e.g. in a hierarchy of folders, and how to read and write them.

> You can define multiple locations and storage. This is useful, for example,

Author: Actually, when writing the doc the first time, I also used `storages`, but it is actually uncountable, no plural!

when you are dealing with online and offline file systems.

A single specific file is represented in Invenio by a ``FileInstance`` object:
it defines its relative path to the Location where it is stored and also
other useful properties such as size or checksum.

In a few words, you can think to Location, Storage and FileInstance as
the physical representation of your files system(s).

Object storage
++++++++++++++
Invenio provides an abstraction of your physical file system with an object
storage representation similar to Amazon S3. This allows great flexibility
and easy to use APIs.

> With an analogy to the traditional file systems where files are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can compare this implementation with a traditional file system where files are
```

> contained in folders, in Invenio object storage ``ObjectVersions``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contained in folders, in Invenio object storage the ``ObjectVersions``
```

> are contained in ``Buckets``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are contained inside the ``Buckets``.
```

> Buckets are a set of objects, they are uniquely identified by an ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Buckets are sets of objects, they are uniquely identified by an ID
```

and can define constraints on file sizes or quotas. A bucket also

> defines the default Location to use when adding files, if none provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
defines the default Location to use when adding files, if none is provided.
```

An ObjectVersion is a specific version (the ``version_id``) of a file
at a given moment in time. It has a reference to a FileInstance
and metadata such as the file name (the ``key``). The latest version
of a file is marked as the ``head``.

ObjectVersions allow to perform operations to your files without
accessing the file system. Let's see a common example: a user wants
to delete a previously uploaded file.
With Invenio, this means creating a new ObjectVersion for this
file, the new head, without reference to the FileInstance that
it had before. The file on disk is not accessed or removed.
This is also called delete marker or soft deletion.

You can read more in the
`Invenio-Files-REST <http://invenio-files-rest.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
module documentation.

.. _handling-files-integration-with-records:

Integration with records
------------------------
Invenio integrates files and records by creating a reference

> between a Record and a Bucket. Usually a record has a reference to one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
between a Record and a Bucket. By default in Invenio a record has a reference to one
```

bucket and a bucket to one record.

.. image:: ../_static/invenio-files-integration.png

> Invenio allows you to set up different scenarios and have, for example,

Reviewer: Maybe we need to specify that this behavior does not come out of the box and that the user needs to implement their own code to and override parts of the existing class to achieve this.

Author: Right, I have added `To achieve any of these, you will have to define
your own integration between records and files.`

1. fetch the Bucket assigned to the Record
2. store the file, its size and its checksum in the bucket's
   default Location using the configured Storage
3. create a new FileInstance with the URI to the file
4. create a new ObjectVersion with a reference to the FileInstance
5. add the newly created ObjectVersion to the Record's Bucket
6. update the record's metadata to add the metadata of the new file

You can learn more on how record and files work together and
avaiable APIs by reading the documentations of
`Invenio-Records-Files <http://invenio-records-files.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
and
`Invenio-Files-REST <http://invenio-files-rest.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__.

.. _handling-files-setup-your-storage:

Setup your storage
------------------
With the quickstart application, a default Location is set up in the
same directory.

You can create your own locations by using the CLI. The only
constraint is that you will always have to define at least
one ``default`` Location.

For example, you can define a new default location named ``shared`` in the path
``/mnt/shared``:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pipenv run invenio files location shared /mnt/shared --default

> From now on, any new Bucket (not the existing ones) will use this location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From now on, any new Bucket, besides the existing ones, will use this location
```

> and therefor files will be stored in ``/mnt/shared``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and therefore files will be stored in ``/mnt/shared``.
```
